The more I look at blogs like Seth Godin's, the more envious I am of the clean design, short posts, and simple ideas expressed in little words.

"This is what I need to do," I think to myself. Spin up a simple WordPress backend (with a NextJS front-end because I like design), and write short, simple posts every day for twenty years. That sounds sort of easy (it's really not), but is that how you win the blogging game in 2024? It certainly helped for Godin, but he started in 2002; his reputation is now so established that he can blog about whatever he wants, and people will read. And even more importantly, he has the *life experience* (and business experience) to blog about some little idea, observation, or business/marketing strategy every day because he's seen so much.

Me, on the other hand, not so much. I'm twenty-four years old and have spent the last three years of my life cooped up in my bedroom building a YouTube channel that's not mine. I don't feel like I "wasted" those three years, because I learned how to code and learned a ton of history, but I do think I would have much more life and business experience if I spent those formative three years working alongside professionals hand-in-hand. I think, nay, know, this is the case because between 17-21, I *did* work hand-in-hand with those professionals and I advanced much more rapidly in my career than I have in the last few years. I also learned way more about working with a team who has different incentives, how to handle conflict when things need to be moving forward, and how to put out fires when you don't have water, a fire extinguisher, or time. (That's a metaphor.)

Anyway, all of that to say: my output can't be matched to someone else's. Your output can't be matched to someone else's.

As I start law school, I love the idea of having an infinite scroll, reverse chronological blog where I share what I learn and break down cases. And while it's true writing does help clarify thinking, I think trying to "perform" for a blog can be detrimental to my academic excellence. Instead of studying more, I'll spend time making myself sound smarter online. That's not good. (Everything is about incentives.)