---
publish: false
---
## Thoughts
Feeling sick still and I think I lost my taste. Eric reached out to me about helping him develop the church notes app, so I'm excited to have that project to work on with him. I need to start a Ruby course though. He sent me a textbook, but that's not the most effective way for me to learn plus it hurts my head.

Kendal started redoing my office and I'm soooo excited to see what it's going to look like. I'm sure it's going to make me full much better about my office and help my productivity because I'll be enjoying the space that I'm working in and it will match my aesthetic. 

***
## Content
https://www.livescience.com/33793-record-players-work.html

--
***
## til
[[How record players work]]

How to deploy a [[Ruby on Rails]] app. This documentation explains it pretty much! Crazy how easy it is. Though when I deployed this now, I have absolutely no idea where it's getting the data from haha. I checked the views folder briefly and didn't see it in there, but I don't really know what I'm looking for quite yet.

I also learned a bit more about [[git]] and how to add a directory you already made to a repo. It's actually pretty simple and crazy how easy it is. I was uploading different folders and files manually before, so I'm glad I learned this. I should still do some more learning on how to use it more effectively though.

How to add local directory to repo from terminal:

In the directory you want to push to the repo:

```terminal

$ git remote add origin {repo SSH Key}
$ git branch -M main
$ git push -u origin main

