---
publish: false
---
## Thoughts
Saturday baby! Drinking my coffee, catching up on some articles and excited to watch a few movies today. Got Deadpool, Django Unchained, Deadpool 2 and one other but I forgot. We'll see how it goes!

***
# Content

Read this article on the question: "Is there a God?"
https://www.themarginalian.org/2019/07/17/stephen-hawking-brief-answers-to-the-big-questions/

Thought it was interesting and, most notably, the bit at the end about time not exisisting in a black hole. Therefore, there was no time before the Big Bang because time didn't exist.

---

Read this article on web3. Super intersting and great breakdown.
https://moxie.org/2022/01/07/web3-first-impressions.html

The OpenSea part removing his nft shocked me. Thought their whole mission was the opposite? Upon further research, though, I learned that his nft still exists on-chain. OpenSea didn't "delete" it, they just removed it from their platform (good? bad? idk. idc tbh.)

However, it does seem that anyone can make a change to the title, description, etc. of an nft if they have access to the machine where the VPS is running, because NFTs do not store their metadata on chain.

--- 

Profile and interview on #BenAffleck
https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/movies/story/2022-01-07/ben-affleck-tender-bar-amazon

I think it’s a paradox that the more you focus on actually trying to do what you think is interesting and what you want to do — rather than what other people say — the better your work is and the more relaxed you get.

I had a therapist once who gave me really good advice. This was 2003 or 2004 and I was really struggling. People were just writing vicious, awful, hateful stuff about me all the time and it really started to affect me. The therapist said, “What I find about criticism is that if you can look at it honestly and take in what resonates with you, then the rest of it you can let go.” And that was a process that got me into directing and gave me the confidence to start doing that.

---

[[How to Find Your Calling with Robert Greene]] and [[Ryan Holiday]]]]

---

[[The Science of Making and Breaking Habits]]

---

Unless you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life and you will call it fate. #CarlJung #quotes

***
## til

[[The Science of Making and Breaking Habits#^b5f408]]

