---
publish: false
---

## Scratchpad
- [[Ben Franklin's Plan for Future Conduct]] - [[My Writing Inbox]] #task 
- Ben Franklin book summary #task
	- Maybe what i learned studying the life of Ben Franklin and What I learned stufying the life of Albert Einstein #idea
	- Write a thread with these types of illustrations #task 
		- https://twitter.com/waitbutwhy/status/1491115068343214086?s=20&t=_l5Vfz3kF7rSnIq32FaDSw [[Tim Urban]]
- [[Einstein]] was trying to find a unified field theory that helped him understand the systems in the world. This is a loose relation to what [[Mental Models]] are. 
	- [[Einstein - His Life and Universe]]
- Had a super productive work day today! Got a lot done video wise with the Science video and started editing the mental models course videos. I think it's going to be pretty straightforward, as long as my computer can keep up.
	- I also fixed the helper functions that sorted my posts by latest first and alphabetical order on my notes. The next big thing to do is add the Tags dynamic pages, but will hold off on that for now. I have some errors when I try and deploy and IDK what that's all about.
- [[Measure goals backward, not forward]]
- Fix 404 page on site #task]
- Author **bell hooks** on the importance of knowing how to be alone: "Many of us seek community solely to escape the fear of being alone. Knowing how to be solitary is central to the art of loving. When we can be alone, we can be with others without using them as a means of escape." #quotes 
- Stoic philosopher **Epictetus** on taking action:

"Now is the time to get serious about living your ideals. How long can you afford to put off who you really want to be? Your nobler self cannot wait any longer.

Put your principles into practice – now. Stop the excuses and the procrastination. This is your life! You aren’t a child anymore. The sooner you set yourself to your spiritual program, the happier you will be. The longer you wait, the more you’ll be vulnerable to mediocrity and feel filled with shame and regret, because you know you are capable of better.

From this instant on, vow to stop disappointing yourself. Separate yourself from the mob. Decide to be extraordinary and do what you need to do – now." #quotes  



***
## What I consumed today
[[Reading Log]]

- Heuristics that almost always work. Really thought-provoking essay about "the person who always does X" and getting too comfortable with what you're doing in life.
	- https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/#inbox/FMfcgzGmtrJzRRmQNLkbVMPLHkmlHDNz [[Cool things I've found online]]
- I’m serious about this: never take life advice from people who don’t know what they care about and don’t understand what makes them happy. These people have no agency. They have never in their life exercised their will to actually obtain something that gives them joy and pride. They’ve relentlessly exercised their will to obtain things that they like the idea of, that they think they “need.” They always think pleasure is a sin. A common argument: “If I wanted to be happy all day, I would just sit on the couch and play video games. Happiness is not the point of life. The point of life is [greatness] [ambition] [fidelity to tradition].” Omg. If someone says this to you, they literally do not understand that you can do something you actually ENJOY and be really really good at it. They’re so dominated by their superego that suffering is their only god. #quotes [[Cool things I've found online]]
	- https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/#inbox/FMfcgzGmtNWxCVlcfShLpnDwkDBjdFTq


***
## til


