---
tags:
  - daily
---
"The People Watching" expert: The BEST Ways to Read People 

For thumbnail: The Quietest People are the most dangerous!

"I knew they were cheating on their partner within seconds of meeting them."

"I knew they were cheating on their partner!"

The No. 1 Non-Verbal Expert: All you need to know about reading people

The Non-Verbal Expert: These behaviors tell you everything you need to know about someone

The Non-Verbal Expert: The Secret Signals That Reveal Someone is Trustworthy (or not!)

The #1 Non-Verbal Psychologist: The body language behaviors that reveal EVERYTHING about a person
 - I scrapped this one for the immediate release. It doesn't give anything to the viewer. "determine whether or not someone is trustworthy" is something that's legit and a lot of people actually *want* to do.

... - The behaviors that tell you EXACTLY what someone is really thinking
... - The secret behaviors that show whether or not someone is trustworthy!

Timecodes

00:00 - Intro
00:47 - How to improve your ability to read non-verbal cues
04:29 - How does trust correlate with non-verbal cues?
07:30 - How to change other people's perceptions of you
08:55 - Eastman's forensic experiences
11:30 - How to evaluate the level of danger from someone's non-verbal cues
15:20 - How Eastman knew someone was cheating on their partner
18:35 - How to recognize danger in someone's relationship complaints
21:44 - Practical ways to improve your communication skills
27:55 - How to understand power structure and social dynamics at work
37:24 - How to improve your non-verbal communication at work
44:11 - How to improve your environment to improve your behavior
45:00 - How Bill Clinton makes others feel like the most important person in the world (and how you can too)
48:30 - How to recognize people who are deceitful
56:09 - On the infallibility to permanent video
57:18 - Eastman's tips on using non-verbal cues for better dates
01:03:02 - How non-verbal cues vary across cultures
01:07:28 - The Rockefeller Method and lessons from 'Titan'
01:11:16 - Eastman's routine for reading, taking notes, and using AI to learn
01:16:52 - Eastman's unique uses for AI and ChatGPT
01:22:30 - Why Eastman uses coaches, and what makes a good vs. a great coach
01:25:08 - Eastman's most pivotal life change, and why it happened
01:29:55 - Eastman gives tips to Shane for asking better questions
01:31:50 - The power of writing and thinking
01:36:32 - Eastman's definition of success












