Status:
Author:
Tags: #article 
Link: https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2022/05/social-media-democracy-trust-babel/629369/
***
- historically, civilizations have relied on shared blood, gods, and enemies to counteract the tendency to split apart as they grow. But what is it that holds together large and diverse secular democracies such as the United States and India, or, for that matter, modern Britain and France?
- *There are three things that hold society together - social capital, strong institutions, and shared stories. Social media has weakened all three of those things.*
- Once social-media platforms had trained users to spend more time performing and less time connecting, the stage was set for the major transformation, which began in 2009: the intensification of viral dynamics.
- In *Revolt of the Public*, He noted that distributed networks “can protest and overthrow, but never govern.” He described the nihilism of the many protest movements of 2011 that organized mostly online and that, like Occupy Wall Street, demanded the destruction of existing institutions without offering an alternative vision of the future or an organization that could bring it about.
- “Those who express sympathy for the views of opposing groups may experience backlash from their own cohort.” In other words, political extremists don’t just shoot darts at their enemies; they spend a lot of their ammunition targeting dissenters or nuanced thinkers on their own team. In this way, social media makes a political system based on compromise grind to a halt.
- Finally, by giving everyone a dart gun, social media deputizes everyone to [administer justice with no due process](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2021/10/new-puritans-mob-justice-canceled/619818/). Platforms like Twitter devolve into the Wild West, with no accountability for vigilantes. A successful attack attracts a barrage of likes and follow-on strikes.
- "He who knows only his own side of the case, knows little of that" [[John Stuart Mill]] #quotes 
- Universities evolved from cloistered medieval institutions into research powerhouses, creating a structure in which scholars put forth evidence-backed claims with the knowledge that other scholars around the world would be motivated to gain prestige by finding contrary evidence.
	- *This isn't the case anymore. Anyone who speaks against institutions will lose their job, get cancelled, or attacked on Twitter. It's the exact opposite of what higher education was created for.*
	- The new omnipresence of enhanced-virality social media meant that a single word uttered by a [professor](https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2020/09/08/professor-suspended-saying-chinese-word-sounds-english-slur), [leader](https://heterodoxacademy.org/blog/true-diversity-requires-generosity-of-spirit/), or [journalist](https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/2021/02/12/donald-mcneil-new-york-times-fallout/), even if spoken with positive intent, could lead to a social-media firestorm, triggering an immediate dismissal or a drawn-out investigation by the institution.
- The problem is that the left controls the commanding heights of the culture: universities, news organizations, Hollywood, art museums, advertising, much of Silicon Valley, and the teachers’ unions and teaching colleges that shape K–12 education. And in many of those institutions, dissent _has_ been stifled: When everyone was issued a dart gun in the early 2010s, many left-leaning institutions began shooting themselves in the brain. And unfortunately, those were the brains that inform, instruct, and entertain most of the country.
- If we do not make major changes soon, then our institutions, our political system, and our society may collapse during the next major war, pandemic, financial meltdown, or constitutional crisis.
- Posting on Twitter or other social media fake news isn't the problem - it's the fact that those sources can reach sooooo many people in sooooo little time.
	- Those who oppose regulation of social media generally focus on the legitimate concern that government-mandated content restrictions will, in practice, devolve into censorship. But the main problem with social media is not that some people _post_ fake or toxic stuff; it’s that fake and outrage-inducing content can now _attain a level of reach and influence_ that was not possible before 2009.
- Banks and other industries have “know your customer” rules so that they can’t do business with anonymous clients laundering money from criminal enterprises. Large social-media platforms should be required to do the same.