Status: #reading 
Date Start: [[08-02-2022]]
Date Finish: [[08-23-2022]]
Author:
Tags: #book
***
# B - Revolt of the Public

[[Clean notes - Revolt of the Pubic]]

- ## Chapters 1 & 2
- Under conditions of scarcity, soures of information become authoritative. Increase the access to information and you decrease the authrotiy of any one person on that topic.
- More information was generated in 2001 than in all the previous existence of our species on earth.
- **The Public**, from [[Walter Lippmann]]: "is not a fixed body of individuals. It is merely the persons who are interested in an affair and can affect it only be supporting or opposing the actors." Gurri agrees with this, but thinks the public today has become an actor: "It is composed of amateurs, and it had fractured into vital communities, each clustered around an affair of interest to the group."
-  **Authority** pertains to the source. We believe something because of who said it. At an individual level, this standing is acheived by a professionalization. The person in authority is trained in a certain way and has access to hidden knowledge. But at an institutional level, there is lasting authority. This authority doesn't waiver with people. They have a certain connection to monopoly conditions on their field. These are government, corporations, research institutes, foundations, and so on.
- This age, this information overload and ridding of the traditional, "I-talk-you-listen" form of media, Gurri calls the Fifth Wave. The information of writing, development of the alphabet, the printing press, and traditional media (as mentioned above), are the previous 4 waves.
- The gifted amateru is a popular character in the 5th wave–someone who is propelled to unexpected places by the new information of technology.
- Old media used blocks of text to pursuade the public. New media used photos and videos.
- One of the most surprising things about the early days of the 5th wave was the effect of "soft" information on "hard" politics. No one thought some online ramblings would actually create lasting change. The virtual world and reality were too seperate. Until the Egyptian revolution.
	- Interestingly, Gurri makes a small comment that this worked because they didn't want to replace the old guard with a new set of ideas, people, or institutions. They just wanted to get rid of him. He noted that the "weak ties" of the internet are not strong enough to replace the strong ties of the world. *I guess they're just strong enough to get rid of them? I'm confused as to why this really is and I hope he revisits it.*
- "Critical Mass" of diffusion for an idea to sustain itself is between 10 and 20% of a population.
- The internet is not the sole driving force of the 5th wave. Rather it's the entire "information sphere": the internet, social media, tv, and everything else. The internet is a main pillar of that, but not the only one. Shutting down the internet will not prevent a revolution, as we saw with the Egyptian revolution.

- ## Chapter 3 - My Thesis
- Authority is the leader of the "old world" and it's dueling it out with the public, who is bringing in the new world. The agent between them, bringing the change, is information.
	- One main difference between the old and the new are the names. Old world institutions have respectable names: "Bank of America", "National Broadcasting Corporation", "*New York Times*". The new world doesn't take themselves so seriously: "Facebook", "Twitter", "Flickr"
	- Another difference is the structure. The old world, based on authority, has a hierearchail structure and it represents established universities and other institutions. The new world is a network, a group of normal people coming together for one cause that acts a bit like gravity bringing people to it.
- Another way to characterize the two worlds is be looking at them in terms of *Centers* and *Borders*. These terms were established by Mary Douglas and Aaron Wildavsky. The two archetypes are relative to eachother and performs a dance; when one side moves, the other follows.
	- The Center envisions the future to be a continuation of what has already been happening. It creates programs, people, and structures, to ensure the vision of "what once was," can still be.
	- The border is composed of networks that exisit to directly oppose the Center. They stand against the center, but have no intention to govern or excerise new power. 
		- *I think this explains what Gurri mentioned in the previous chapter (2) about revolutions not being able to create new power.*
	- This structure has had a pattern. Whenever the Center thought it had control of a domain or information, Borders sweep in and take control. But, since power isn't something that can be copied or shared, like a file or document, power was always favored by more towards the hierarchy. The Border can overthrow, but not replace the Center. "Networks can overthrow, but never govern." So what's to happen? Gurri likeness what's happening to the religious wars of the 17 Century. Everyone thought, and was waiting anxiously for, either the Protestants or the Catholics to win, but really both ended up winning in their own way. This is what Gurri thinks will happen with hierarchys and networks.
- For a public to exist at all, it has to achieve self-consiousness. It has to be able to identify some irritation that pulls itself away from the Elites and becomes a seperate entity. 
- **Gurri's thesis is that a revolution in the nature and content of communication ende the top-down controle elites exerted on the public during the industrial age. This is only true though, if we can show that information can actually influence the arrangement of power and create real-life effects and those effects have to be big enough to create a real crisis of authority.**
- In the early 90s and 2000s, people took either one of three stances on the internet and social media:
	- Cyber-utopians - This group recognized the new digital platforms would make it easy for groups to "self-assemble" and that the creation of these groups, sooner or later, would lead to social and political change. In an article, Clary Shirky wrote:
	> 	"Indeed, the best practical reason to think that social media can help bring political change is that both dissidents and governments think they can. All over the world, activists believe in the utility of these tools and take steps to uses them accordingly. And the governments they contened with think social media tools are powerful, too, and are willing to harass, arrest, exile, or kill users in response."
	- Cyber-skeptics - These people argued whether or not anything with the internet has actually changed much... He cites Gladwell in an article explaining that the "weak ties" of the internet are not strong enough to overthrow the "strong ties" of a community relationship. Evidently, a revolution formed online wouldn't translate to real-life, because people only got involved in stuff like that if their friends, neighbors, or family did. 
	- Cyber-pessimists fall somewhere between the internet was pointless and that it's going to make a trivial change. *(He honestly didn't explain this one too well and I think pessimism and skeptics description should be reversed.)*
- #### On Homo Informaticus
	- The anxiety to control information in those who already controlled the guns should alert us that political power may bes less a lot more soft than was realized at the time. Power, from the public perspective, is just an alignment between what the Elites want and the opinions and actions of the Public.
	- Gurri's analysis of whether or not/how information creates authority change rises on one actor: homo informaticus - the information man. But first, we have to talk about Unmediated Man.
	- Unmediated Man lived and died within a political system governed by an authoritative regime. The problem this regime faced wasn't control, but communication. If it wanted to impose its weill on Unmediated Man, it had to find a way to convey that will to hi, in the context of some story that made sense. Unmediated man depended on information from his "strong ties"–family and neighbors–and woke up everyday expecting a day similar to the one that had just ended. So, for the regime to communicate its will upon UM, it needed to control the community because that's where UM got his information from, and it did this by appointing the local authorities. Every person he came in contact with had the same story of legitamacy about the regime. In UM's world, the Public became whatever the government told it to be.
	- Here is where Homo informaticus arrives...He's literate and has access to newspapers, radio, movies, and TV. This is a new threat to the regime, because the public "with a longer reach may gain access to information that subverts its story of legitimacy." That story of legitimacy is currently the only thing holding the "public" to obeying/following the authorities power. The regime would try to control this new form of media, and can do so to a current extent, but the sheer volume of channels prohibits it from doing so completely. "As messages and images proliferate, it becomes progressively hard to dtermine exactly what their relationship is to the regime's justifying story."
	- This new channel of information broadens HI's field of vision to think about different worldviews. No longer is there one idea or opinion. "When judging his government, HI can then do so in light of alternative possibilites–different views of the same politcy or event, different values invoked for an action or inaction, different performance by other governments, real or imagined." Since HI can't absorb *all* of the new information, he has to be selective. So he picks and chooses, as do other members of the public, who they listen to, what they watch, and inevitably, what they believe. Since all information has to either be mediated or recieved directly, the mass media mediators no longer can persuade the public to think one way about the regime.
	- "The consequences are prediacalt and irreversible. The regime accumulates pain points and botched responses to disaster. These problems can no longer be concealed or explained away. Instead, they are siezed on by the newly empowered public, and placed front-and-center in pen disccusions. In essence, government failure now sets the agenda."
	- All that to say, here's how information can sway political power:
		- Information influences politics becaise it is indigestible by a government's justifying story
		- The greater the diffusion of information to the public, the more illegitimate an politcal status quo will appear.
			- HI, networked builder and wielder of the information sphere, poses and existential challenge to the legitimacy of the government encounters.``
- ## Chapter 4 - What the public is not
- This chapter was honestly really confusing, and so far, the only one that didn't quite make sense. Gurri attempted to define the public, by defining what the public is not. Classic.
- He started by saying the public ≠ the people. "The public can never be the people because the people are an abstraction of political philosophy."
- He also explained that the public is not the masses. The masses were those who were reactive during the 19th century because they didn't have any other choices. Like our HI example from above, the masses seem to be a group of people following one channel that's being mediated by the authority. The active public, on the other hand, can only come about when they have other choices.  Our age of the public is explained through a radical shift along this spectrum. From one that was entirely reactive in the 19th Century to one that is completley active and hyper-intrusive. 
- The public is also not the crowd. The public is composed of private persons welded together by a shared point of reference. A crowd is manifested, and capable of great physical destruction. A crowd could be percieved as the public in the flesh, but they are not *the* public. "The vector of contagion was the information sphere, the weapon of choice was the crowd."

- ## Chapter 5 - Phase Change 2011
- 1 - Gurri's thesis throughout the book concerns the tectonic collision between a public that will not rule and institutions of authority that continue to become less able to do so. Through this stress, he fears democracy will be shred to pieces as an "immense psychological distance seperates the two sides, even as they come together in conflict." What fills the gap between these? Distrust. 
- 2 - The elites have never really trusted the public, and they still don't. What changed then, was the public's increased distrust for the authority it once relied on; and in the age of the Fifth wave, the further increasing power the public has to actually do soemthing about that growing distrust.
- Most of the people, in each of the phase change events of 2011 were young, middle class, educated. "Sectarian ideals propelled them into politics." Neither, did any of the movements insist in a new way of governing, new policies or plans to move forward. They made no demands, but felt free to accuse.
- Though the OWS movements didn't have large numbers compared to Tel Aviv or Egypt, it somehow tipped the scales for the public to distrust government institutions and with it, democracy. Their message was that the 1% tyrranized the other 99%, who was supposedly part of the march, but they didn't actually represent that 99%, only a small subset of people within that 99%. Somehow though, their message became interpreted as: "This is how the American public is feeling."
- "Revolution in 2011, mean denunciation. Actual change was left for someone else." So that was the most profound consequence of the phase change of 2011–sowing the seeds of distrust in the democratic process. It also showed that in a matter of an instant, the public can mobilize itself and command the attention of all political players. The government, after 2011, realized they were at a constant awarness of what the public could do. (I sort of disagree with that statement. Context on page 139)

- ## Chapter 6 - A Crisis of Authority
- Authority must be heeded to from the public and the best way to get the public to do that is through persuassion, not force or bribery (though those work, they're not as effective). Authority started to lose it's power when the gap between what they claimed was their competency and their actual performenace increased. Gurri maintains that this gap had always been there, from the middle of the 19th Century to the end of the 20th Century. What changed, though, was just the public's awareness of it. Before, they didn't know it existed, but now they had the information available to see it was there. 
	- "In the industrial age, the pratfalls of authority had been managed discreetyl, camoflauged by the mystique of the expert at the top of his game. Today failure happens out in the open, in public, where everyonecan see."
- Gurri contrasts how Einstein, being a lowly patent clerk was able to come up with, validate, and be respected for his findings of the universe compared to today where scientific institutions are riddled with heirarchy and beuracratic policies.
- Thanks to the information sphere, the public sees their unment expectations daily of the Center-based institutions. The public uses that information to attack the legitimacy of the institutions. Sometimes they're right in attacking the corruption, but other times they go to far. This all stems from the fact that the Center can't say "we don't know" and they're too busy making sure "bad science" from amateur's doesn't spread. This supposed confidence of certainty is recieved by the public as legit, until it isn't and they say something that isn't true or something happens that they said wasn't going to, because inevitably it will because they can't be certain of every little thing. 
- A dilemma so far in the chapter is seeing so clearly the revolt of the public in 2008 and 2011, yet watching the systems they all protested still exisit today. 

- ## Chapter 7: The Failure of Government
- After so many failures from political figures, at some point, the system in which those figures operated have to become implicated in failure.
- Gurri contrasts Kennedy's Bay of Pigs invasion failure with Obama's stimulus actof failure and the rise of the Tea Party Caucus and the fall of his popularity in the 2010 midterm elections. Though Kennedy's failure was self-inflicted, the public rose up in support. This did not happen with Obama–so what changed?
- For a government to fail, two things must occur:
	- First some empirical event must occur that is percieved as a failure.
	- Second, The relationship between the government and the governed must somehow be ruptured. Trust must be broken for failure to have lasting consequences.
		- You would think both of these are *always* true, for why would the public keep trusting the government after a failure? But that's not always the case.
- Each one of the public's revolts were comprised of different groups of people with unclear ideals held together by the glue of what they hated: either the government favoring the 1%, or in Tea Party case, Big Government, exemplified by the stimulus and health-care spending. Since they were all clear on what they hated but lacked any clarity on what they stood for, creating some sort of plan for the future was off the table, for as soon as they did, the groups would be dismembered. 
- What was similar though, with Obama and JFK, was the claims of competence made by both government's and the ability to actually do any of those things. "The radical disconnect between the rhetoric and the reality of government was apparent with anyone with eyes to see, and, amplified by the information sphere, was itself a major vector for the contagion of distrust." 198
- One difference is the high modernism vs. late modernism forms of government and political aims. High modernism has to do with building grand things in the future and is a campaign set on a bright world if only X happens. Late modernism is more concerned with ensuring the public is happy and that they allow the president to outlive their term in peace.
- After the failure if the stimulus during his first term, Obama took a different approach to the problems in America–becoming the negater rather than the solver. He aligned himself with the public's anger on any issue he spoke about in a speech, but never gave a plan or action to do something about it.
	- "For the president and his inner circle, the federal government exisisted an immense moral distance 'underneath' them, and was staffed by grubby bureacrats who fully deserved the distrust of the public."

- ## Chapter 8 - Nihilism and Democracy
- If the industrial age heierarchies of contemporary democracy are suffering a crisis of authority, and if the public is on the move and expecting impossibilites, then all things being equal, the system will continue to bleed away legitimacy–and there will be those who argue it should be put out of its misery.
- Interestingly, none of those who rail aginst the current system or downtrodden. They are mainly middle class and educated. So in this chapter, Gurri explores the nihlist in the enviornment that made his evolution possible.
- The Nihilist heard George W. Bush say the war in Iraq was about weapons of mass destruction, but none were found there. He heard Obama say unemployment would be capped, only for millions to lose their job. But he doesn't see these as failures. He assumes the government are liars and cheaters. Without his digital devices, the nihilist would be nothing. Instead, he is overally informed about those few odd topics that obsess him, "and he produces a torrent of hard-core negations posted about about the world around him."
	- The nihilist feels like they deserve much more from the system, and are willing to tear down that system that had failed to give it to them even though that system created them.
- Now that Gurri has properly exposed the problems and all its faults, what then shall be the solution? Where do we go from here because doing nothing is not an option... That is the next chapter.

- ## Chapter 9 - Choices and Systems
- This chapter isn't a prophesization of the future; it's merely choices about the future that the reader can choose to or not to go forward with.
- In the Fifth Wave, the public has options-that's a defining charecteristic of the fifth wave.
- "The most effective alternative to industrialized democracy [is] the personal sphere: the place where information and decisions move along the shortest casual links."
- The people who advise the president on economic issues have no skin in the game-they don't care if they're wrong because they usually don't get punished by it.
- So, we can align our demands with the knowledge of our historical moment, or we can stay under the shadow of the failed ambitions of the past.
- GDP and unemployment rates are a gross disillusionment of America's progress and the standard of the president. What does the unemployment rate even mean? Is it down because some crazy event happened? Is the stock market up because the president initiated good economic policies, or did a bunch of news break about exciting technollgy that has investors stirring? Who knows but as long as we have some sort of stat, we'll know what to feel.
	- This can lead to a father living in rural Wisonsin with a great job and healthy family being upset at the president for unemployment rates. Even though their personal sphere is in good, working order, they're mad that unemployment went from 5.8% to 5.9%.
- [[Telescopic philanthropy]] 
- This chapter was honestly super confusing and didn't really lay out clear "choices" other than having the government be more public (posting bills online and being able to see real-time changes and other stuff like that...)

## Quotes
- "When proof for and against approaches infinity, a cloud of suspicion about cherry-picking data will hang over authroitative judgement."
- "Even the simplest human events constitute complex systems ruled by nonlinearities. Within such systems, teasing out a single episode and proclaiming it the prime mover makes as much sense as picking a grain of sand and calling it 'the beach'."
- "The anxiety to control information in those who already controlled the guns should alert us that political power may bes less "hard""
- "Propaganda was the totalitarian's admission that his power wasn't total."


## Random Tidbits
- Two men died from setting themselves on fire in response to how they were treated by their government. The reason they chose fire is unclear, but while they both suffered the same consequence, only one was a catalyst: he died in front of a camera. The other died a faceless shadow. This would be a prime example of "new media." p.42
- Book: Why Most Things Fail by Paul Ormeord