
#blog-draft 

They sat there, in silence, staring at the screen and wondering how it all went so wrong. They were so confident. Their spreadsheet had all the numbers and calculations. They did their research on the companies and knew when to buy and when to sell. But those thoughts now couldn't mask the sheer terror they felt inside as they stared at all the red numbers on their bank account, wondering how they will ever recover.

That story, that picture, that scene can describe any one of us at any one point in time. Thinking we knew the basics of managing our money like not spending more than you make, buying index funds, and saving for retirement. But what no one taught me, and probably what no one taught you, was how to manage the part of your brain that manages your money because that's just as, if not more, challenging to do.

This is exactly what The Psychology of Money by Morgan Housel taught me and in this video I'm going to share exactly what I learned in a new series I'm calling *The Almanac: Lessons I Learned From Others.*  Let's get into it.

The first thing I learned from this book is that just because you say you will do something with your money when the stock market goes to hell, doesn't mean you actually will. When most people think about what they'd do if the stock market crashes 30%, all they are thinking about is the stock market crashing 30%. But what typically causes the stock market to crash 30% is a horrible terrorist attack, a global pandemic, or another sort of wild catastrophe. So now, you have to think about keeping your family or loved ones safe and secure *while* your investments are taking 30%. In that scenario, it's much harder to pull the trigger and buy low with the confidence that the market is going to come back up. It is in this scenario that one of the core messages of the book can be learned, managing money well is all about behavior. It's not about tactics or spreadsheets, but the behavior of each person. It might sound simple, but it was pretty profound when it clicked for me.

The second takeaway from this book is that every decision someone makes, makes sense to them or made sense to them at the time of the decision. No one makes a decision and at the same time thinks, this is such a stupid decision and I don't get why I'm doing it, but let's do it. This has a practical application in finance when you're trying to teach someone how to properly use their money or when you're trying to rescue someone from their poor spending habits. They got in that hole because whatever logic they had, it all made sense to them. So try not berate or get angry at them because of their ignorance.

The third takeaway from this book, which is a direct quote from Housel himself, is that the most important part of any plan is to plan on it not going according to plan. Any plan you have, whether it be to hangout with a group of friends, buy a house at a certain time, or get married will most likely not line up line by line for what you had in mind. But often times, we act like it's going to. Instead, we need to have, what the book and other popular literature calls Margin of Safety or Living with Room For Error. This includes simple things like having a savings account ready for emergencies, but it also includes planning for a wide range of possibilities in the future. The world is not governed by certainties. It never will be. But too often, we act like it does. We make plans on strict timelines instead of time ranges. When those timelines get out of sync, we're left confused and aren't sure where to go from there. But living with room for error means you see the world not as black or white, this or that, A or B, but as grey, maybe a little this and a little that, and it could be A, maybe B, but also it could be C too. Living with room for error might mean you can't take on as much risk or get as big of gains as someone else willing to go all-in, but living with room for error ensures you will be around long enough for what little you do have, to compound. This is a much more effective strategy than someone who goes all in, loses everything, and has to start from 0. I know which person I'd rather be.

There are a dozen other insights I got from reading this book and i highly recommend you read it as well. Also, follow Morgan Housel on Twitter because he's a great writer and posts interesting thoughts. If you aren't quite sure whether this book is for you, check out the link in the description to view my book notes on my website for some more takeaways, quotes, and anecdotes that made me go wow.

If you enjoyed this video, give it a thumbs up, subscribe, and tap the bell to get notified when I post new videos. Thanks so much for watching and I hope to see you in the next video.

