# Why save in your twenties when you'll earn in your fourties?

#finances #success #links 

Eating my delicious parfait this morning, I did what most men of my age do and turn on YouTube. I came across a [video of Ryan Holiday and Morgan Housel touring Holiday's bookstore](https://youtu.be/RHayBwf8cJY?si=CWmPXyqh7S0gTHKJ&t=356).

At one point, Ryan asks Morgan if he's read Die with Zero, and then they go off talking about some of the ideas in the book. I've heard of the book, but haven't read it. The main idea in the book is why save all of your money to give to your kids when they're 60 and probably don't need it, when they *really* could've used it when they were 32 trying to put a down payment on a home.

A corollary idea to that, and what Morgan and Ryan start talking about in the video, is that they both are not living off of the money they saved in they're early twenties. Morgan says something like "Yeah, you were robbing yourself of living then to save money you don't really need now."

Obviously, two New York Times bestselling authors are not the typical run-of-the-mill, middle class earners, so their income every year is likely outpacing what they made the entire decade of their twenties, but the idea is interesting.

Assuming you went to college and have a somewhat stable job that provides you with a relatively foreseeable path to increase your earning potential, saving ludicrously in your early twenties might not make a whole lot of sense. I'm not saying you shouldn't keep an emergency fund—it still blows my mind how many of my friends and acquaintances just have $0 in case something goes wrong—but I'm not sure how much that $50 tossed in your retirement fund periodically in your twenties is going to help, if you'll be able to toss in a whole lot more in your early thirties.

As I wrote this post, though, part of me is like, well who knows how much you're actually going to make, and the $50 periodically in a roth IRA is probably in a better place than buying overpriced cocktails at a bar on the weekends, so maybe saving in your twenties does make a whole lot of sense.

Morgan alludes to this. He says you might make a whole lot of money in your fourties, but you might not. And if you're the type of person who went into a whole lot of debt in your twenties because you knew you were going to make a whole lot of money in your fourties, you might be screwed.

But then Ryan also makes a good point, basically saying that he lives off of the money he makes now, and not off the money or income gains from what he saved when he was in his twenties. That part of the argument I like. Morgan then follows that with, "You were robbing yourself of pleasure when you were twenty three so you can make money in your thirties that you don't need."

I'm not really sure what parts of this idea I like and dislike, other than that I think the idea in and of itself is interesting to think about.