There aren't many books where I've said *finally someone says it. That make so much sense!* as much as I have with Martin Gurri's *Revolt of the Public.* Though some of the ideas are a bit too complicated for me to fully understand, and therefore to agree with, the book helps paint a clear picture of how the internet and social media have influenced the democratic (and non-democratic) institutions in America and around the world.

## Setting the Scene: The Information Floodgates Are Now Open
Under the conditions of scarcity, sources of information become authoritative. In the 1960s, CNN and Walter Cronkite were looked at as a credible source to get information about what was happening around the world because they were the *only source of information*. They didn't have someone on a competing channel yelling about the "fake news from the coocks at CNN." However, as soon as information became more abundant, the authority of any one source started to decline; information scarcity and authority have an inverse coorelation.

**pic here of inverse graph**

When information becomes as abundant as it has in recent years, followed by the adoption of the internet and subsequent social media services, two groups begin to clash: **The Public** and **The Authority**. Gurri focuses on the results of this clashing–and what that means for democracy–throughout the book. They are, you could say, the protagonist and antagonist of the past 20 years.

The Public, according to Gurri, are "amateurs, fractured into vital communities, each clustered around an affair of interest to the group." As I understand it, there's The Public of Climate Change–a group of people centered around climate change and its solutions. If you follow this logic, The Public and The People are not the same thing. The Public is interested in a specifc event or circumstance: climate change, abortion, police officers, and so on. Depending on which issue is top of mind, The Public will be a different group, but The People never change. The People are the remaining group of citizens. The People are often quiet compared to The Public and they should not be understood as the same group. 

The Authority pertains to the source. We believe something because of who said it. At an individual level, this standing is acheived by a professionalization. The person in authority is trained in a certain way and has access to hidden knowledge. But at an institutional level, there is lasting authority. This authority doesn't waiver with people. They have a certain connection to monopoly conditions on their field. These are government, corporations, research institutes, foundations, and so on.

Though The Public has always been around, it's much more active and able to make a lasting change during this specific period of information overload–a period Gurri refers to as "The Fifth Wave." The information of writing, the development of the alphabet, the printing press, and the rise of traditional media (local newspapers, three-channel broadcast television) were the previous four waves. The Fifth Wave has gotten rid of, or is in the process of getting rid of, the previous "I-talk-you-listen" form of traditional media: an enviornment where few people in authority have access to hidden knowledge and information and decide what to and what not to feed to the public. Traditional media used blocks of texts to persuade the public; new media uses photos and videos.

A popular character in this Fifth Wave is what Gurri calls *the gifted amateur*–someone who is propelled to unexpected places by the new information of technology. Usually, this gifted amateur appears as someone leading a movement or challenging the ideas of an old institution. They don't have any special training or degrees, but because of the information they're able to obtain online, they're able to lead revolutions against the information-hoarding institutions of the 20th century.

When the Fifth Wave emerged, players and pundits, like any other idea or movement, were skeptical of the longterm impacts of the abundance of information. No one thought the "soft" information of the online world–strangers being friends, incoherent ramblings, and so on–would initiate real change on "hard politics"–the actual policies enacted and how governments govern. The virtual world and reality were not seen to be compatible. A group of online anarchists would never transpire to a *real* group of anarchists. It just wasn't seen as possible. That is, until the Egyption revolution, but we'll get to that later.

Before we go on, it's important to note, as Gurri does in the book, that the internet is not the sole driving force of the Fifth Wave. Rather, it's the entire information sphere: the internet, social media, tv, and anything else that makes information available to the public more abundant and rids the top-down heirarchies of controlling what they public knows and doesn't know. The internet is one pillar of this information sphere, but it is not *the* information sphere. "You can shut down the internet," Gurri explains, "as Egyptian authorities did when they faced their own uprising–but you can't shut down the information sphere."

## Let's begin
This entire book lays out Gurri's thesis of the battle between the authority and the public and how we got here. He does an exceptional job of not throwing in his beliefs or opinions on situations until one of the last chapters that he specifcally wrote to do so. So now lets begin to explore that thesis.

The "old world" is ruled by authority. These are top-down heirarchial organizations and represnt established institutions like Bank of America, National Broadcasting Corporation, and *New York Times*.

The "new world" is being debuted by the public. Instead of the top-down sturcture of the old, the new world's institutions, if you could even call them that, are networked. There isn't much heirarchy or established governing system. Their names, compared to those of the old, are much less sterile–Facebook, Twitter, and Flickr.

Another illustration Gurri gives between the authority and the public is looking at it in terms of the Center and Borders. These were terms [established by Mary Douglas and Aaron Wildavsky](https://faculty.washington.edu/mccurdy/SciencePolicy/Douglas%20and%20Wildavsky.pdf) where established two archetypes that perform a dance with eachother; when one side moves, the other follows.

The Center envisions the future to be a continuation of what has already been. It creates programs, people, and structures, to maintain the stability of "what once was," and does everything it can to ensure it will still be.

The Border, on the other hand, is composed of networks that directly oppose the Center. They stand against it, but, and here's the catch, *they have no intention to govern or excercise new power*. **The Border will loudly oppose what the Center is doing, but refuses to provide an alternative.** They'll gladly tell the Center how they're wrong, but won't make any propositions as to how to make it right.

Naturally, the dance between the Center and the Borders have had a pattern. Whenever the Center thought it had control of a domain or information, Borders sweep in and take control. But, since power isn't something that can easily be copied and shared, like say a document on a computer, power has always favored the return to the Center. As Gurri eloquently declares, "Networks can overthrow, but can never govern."

So, what's to happen? How does this dance get out of the stalemate? Interestingly, these are the questions Gurri is hesitant to prophesy–he doesn't know better than anyone else–but he does attempt to reconcile the questions eventually. For now, he likens what is happening today to the religious wars of the 17th Century. Everyone was anxiously waiting for either the Protestants or the Catholics to win, and although each side held a more dominant position at times than the other, they really both ended up winning in their own way. This, Gurri predicts, will be the outcome between the heirarchies (the old world) and the networks (the new worlds).

Now that we fully understand the authority, the public, and their battle, let's determine Gurri's thesis. His thesis is that a revolution in the nature of content and communication ended the top-down control of the elites exerted on the public during the industrial age. However, this can only be true if soft information can actually influence the arrangement of power and create real-life effects in the world of hard politics.

### Homo informaticus
The abundance of information created a new species whom Gurri called *homo informaticus*, or, information man. This *homo informaticus* would be the answer to whether or not information creates authority change, but before we can examine that new species, we first have to understand its opposite, whom Gurri called the Unmediated Man (UM).

The Unmediated Man lived and died within a political system governed by an authoritative regime. The problem this regime faced wasn't control of the people, but control of the communication. If it wanted to impose its will on Unmediated Man, it had to find a way to convey that will to him. So, for the regime to communicate its weill upon Unmediated Man, it needed to control the community, because that's where UM got its information from. Every person UM came in contact with had the same story of legitimacy about the regime. In UM's world, the Public became whatever the government told it be. This is where *homo informaticus*(HI) arrives on the scene.

HI is literate and has access to newspapers, radio, movies, and TV. This is a new threat to the regime, because now the public may gain access to information that undermines the regime's legitimacy; and that story of legitmicay is currently the only thing holding the public to obeying the authorities of power. The regime would try to control this new form of media, and can do so to a certain extent, but the sheer volume of channels prohibits it from doing so in totality.

The new channel of information broadens HI's field of vision to think about different worldviews. No longer is there one idea or opinion. "When judging its government," Gurri explains, "*homo informaticus* can then do so in light of alternative possibilities–different views of the same policy of event, different values invoked for an action or inaction, different performance by other governments, real or imagined." But HI succumbs to the same challenge the regime faced: the unimaginanable abundance, therefore, he picks and chooses, as other members of the public pick and choose, who they listen to and what they watch which inevitably, leads to what they believe. "The consequences are predicted and irreversible," Gurri warns, "The regime accumulates pain points and botched responses to disaster. These problems can no longer be conceleaed or explained away. Instead, they are siezed on by the newly empowered public, and placed front–and–center in opn discussions. In essence, government failure now sets the agenda."

This theory of *homo informaticus* explains how information can sway political powers:
- First, information conflicts with the government's prior justifying story.
- The greater the diffusion of information to the public, the more illegitimate a political status quo will appear.
- Homo informaticus, network builder and wielder of the information sphere, poses an existential challenge to the legitimacy of the government.

With more information available to the public, failures, accidents, and contradictions from the government become much more widespread. No longer can they influence what the public thinks by controlling three channels of news or a few newspapers. Anyone with a Twitter or Instagram account can post a video or image of something that happened and immediately create a swath of reactions from the public as they can blatantly see the failure of their government. After this happens so many times, the public begins to realize how illegitimate the government actually is, encouraging them to rise up and take their own stand.

## The phase change of 2011
Gurri's thesis throughout the book concerns the tectonic collision between a public that will not rule and institutions of authority that continue to be less able to do so. Through this stress, he fears democracy will be shred to pieces as an "immense psychological distance seperates the two sides, even as they come together in conflict." What fills the gap between these? Distrust.

The elites and authority have never really trusted the public, and they still don't. So, what's changed? Two things.

First is the public's increased lack of trust for the authority it has relied on for so long. Now made aware of its ever present faults and failures, the public has come to the realization that *maybe the government isn't all knowing and good like we've thought it to be.* The second thing that has changed is the ever increasing power the public now has to actually *do something* about this growing mistrust; which is a direct effect of the arrival of the Fifth Wave.

All of this: Gurri's thesis, the clash between the authority and the public, the desire to overthrow but not rule, and more, all come to a head in 2011. Citing the Arab Spring revolutions, the Indignado protests, Occupy Wall Street, and the Tea Party, Gurri goes in-depth into each event by identifing the key players, explaining what the problems were, how increased information was *one of* the causes of each of these things, and how each event influenced the others, Gurri's thesis matches an almost play-by-play in each of the "revolutions." 2011 was when everything began to change.

As mentioned previously, it's important to note that *the public* as Gurri defines it and *the people* are not identical groups. Let's take Occupy Wall Street, for example. The protestors who made themselves known during the Occupy Wall Street movement were The Public–they believed that the top 1% tyrranized the other 99%. But what's interesting is that "the 99%" wasn't actually the 99%. There wasn't 99% of the population of the United States in Manhattan, there was just a small subset of that 99%. Their message, however, became interpreted as "This is how the rest of America is feeling, you dirty sleezebags." That was clearly not the case. The Public was in attendence at the protests. The People were worried about their own financial troubles.

When Occupy Wall Street is examined further, Gurri notes that no one who attended those protests had any idea *what to actually do next.* You may think this is specific to Occupy Wall Street and that surely the other events of 2011 had a plan for the future, but that's not the case. "Revolution in 2011," Gurri exclaims, "means denunciation. Actual change was left for someone else."

So if Occupy Wall Street, the Tea party, or any of the other movements didn't have a plan for future changes, what was the actual "phase change" part of 2011 you ask? Well, I'm glad to share that with you. 2011, according to Gurri, sowed the seeds of distrust in the democratic process. It also showed that, in a matter of an instant, The Public can mobilize itself and command the attention of all political players. What the government realized after 2011 was that The Public was now someone that *genuinely* had to be taken into account. No longer could they control the narrative. No longer could they hide their faults and failures. The Public knew about everything, and they could be pretty annoying if they didn't get their answers.

## A Crisis of Authority
Authority must be heeded to from the public and the the best way to get the public to do that is through persuasion, not bribery or force. Therefore, as the public began to trust authority less and less, authorities power decreased more and more. Gurri maintains that this gap had always been there, what changed was just the public's awareness of it. Gurri writes:

> In the industrial age, the pratfalls of authority had been managed discretely, camoflauged by the mystique of the expert at the top of his game. Today, failure happens out in the open, in public, where everyone can see.

Before the information age, failure from elites wasn't publicized, therefore, the public had no expectations that went unmet because even if their agenda didn't play out, elites had enough control over the situation to nurture the public's reaction in a certain way. But now that they couldn't do that, the public sees their unment expectations of the Center on a daily basis. The public then uses that information to attack the legitimacy of the institutions.

The crisis of authority, Gurri demands, is rooted in the public's unmet expectations from those in authority. The Center tries to paint a grandiose picture of progress and achievement to the public, and the public bought this picture for awhile, but as soon as those expectations go unmet, the public attacks. What's interesting is that those in authority have total control over the expectations the public assumes, because they're the ones casting the vision. If they want to bring down the expectations of the public, they need to reduce the "grandiose-ness" of their claims, lest they succumb to an invitable failure.

Gurri contrasts John F. Kennedy's Bay of Pigs invasition with Obama's stimulus act and the rise of the Tea Party Caucus in 2010. Both initiatives from the president were failures-the Bay of Pigs did not go as Kennedy intended it to and Obama's stimulus act did not meaningfully effect the economy. But the reaction to each of these failures were opposites.

Before we get into how The Public reacted, lets first understand what causes a government to fail. Gurri explains that two things must occur: First, some empirical event has to be percieved as a failure. Second, the relationship between the government and the governed must somehow be ruptured. Trust *has* to be broken in order for failure to have lasting consequences. 

The Public, in Kennedy's day, saw him as a young president trying to achieve greatness. Sure they failed, but no one achieved anything great without trying. The Public percieved this is a loss/win, things didn't go as planned, but the presidency learned something from it.

On the other hand, The Public rose up in radical revolt to the failure of Obama's stimulus plan. You might be thinking: if The Public revolted, why didn't anything change? And I say to you, that's a great question indeeed. But remember, The Public seeks to overthrow, not to govern. In each of the examples cited in the book, The Public's revolts were comprised of different groups of people with unclear ideals held together by the glue of what they hated, but lacked any sort of clarity on what they stood for. Therefore, creating any sort of plan for the future would be off the table.

What comes after this crisis of authority and failure of government is not good, and can be seen through Obama's change of tone in office during his second term.

## Up next: Nihilism 
After the failure of the stimulus during Obama's first term, he took a different approach with America. Instead of being the problem solver, he became the negater. Rather than aligning himself with governning bodies and the institutions of America, he aligned himself with The Public and their anger on any given issue he spoke about in a speech, but failed to create a plan to actually do something about it. Gurri states, "For the president and his inner circle, the federal government exisisted an immense moral distance 'underneath' them, and was staffed by grubby bureacrats who fully deserved the distrust of the public."

This leads us to where The Public is heading: increased nihilism and desire to rid democracy, for how many failures *in* a system must we have before we realize the failure *is* the system? (Not my words, I'm voicing the nihilist public here).

The Nihilist heard George W. Bush say the ware in Iraq was about weapons of mass destruction, but none were found. They heard Obama say unemployment would be capped, only to watch millions lose their jobs. But after awhile, the nihilist no longer sees these acts as *failures*, but starts accepting that the governement and all authority are liars and cheats.

Failure to act will lead to a front row seat of democracy, leading to nihilism, and with it, the rest of us.