- [The Kind of Smarts You Don't Find in Young People](https://www.theatlantic.com/family/archive/2022/03/older-workers-silicon-valley-business/623880/) - The Atlantic
	- One of the main frustrations between the young people and older people in the workplace, that I've observed at least, is the dichotomy between trying new things/innovating and sticking to what has always been done. Young people, fresh out of college and with a lot of new ideas wants to try new things. People who are more experienced preach the benefits of "sticking to the method." Interestingly, most of the discourse I've seen on hiring explains the values of hiring young because of their skills for innovation. But this article from *The Atlantic* argues most companies don't just need more innovation, they also need more wisdom.
	  
	  > Researchers had long noted that some skills—analysis and innovation, for example—tend to rise quickly very early in life and then fall through one’s 30s and 40s. Meanwhile, one’s knack for combining complex ideas, understanding what they mean, and relating them to others rises throughout middle age and can stay high well into old age.
- [Create For Just One Hour Each Day](https://moretothat.com/create-for-just-one-hour-each-day/) - More to 
	- So the key is to continue cultivating the patience required to show up each day, knowing that the fruits of your labor will arrive long after you’ve sown the seeds.
- [One Parenting Decision That Really Matters](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2022/05/parenting-decisions-dont-trust-your-gut-book-excerpt/629734/) - - Seth Stephens-Davidowitz, The Atlantic
	- I'm not close to the life stage of having kids, more just *thinking* about when and how I want to have kids. I've always wondered, as a parent, what *really* affects your kids life? I don't think it's academics or extra curricular. I've always hypothesizes that it's the friends your kids makes. The people who your kid spends time with really matters. This article doesn't prove that, but your could argue for that potentially. I really liked this one.
	- In fact, putting together the different numbers, I have estimated that some 25 percent—and possibly more—of the overall effects of a parent are driven by where that parent raises their child. In other words, this one parenting decision has much more impact than many thousands of others.
- [New Ways to Measure Science](https://www.wired.com/2012/01/new-ways-to-measure-science/) - Samuel Arbesman, *Wired*
	- The idea of measuring one's contribution to science or academics by the amount of academic papers published has never made sense to me. But honestly, most things in this world don't. That's why I was excited to see Arbesman argue for a different metric. Helpfulness. Or, as Jason Priem has coined, "altmetrics."