---
category:
  - "[[Books]]"
author: 
started: 
finished: 
rating: 
tags:
  - books
  - references
notes: true
notes typed:
---
# Show Your Work

## Impressions

This book teaches you how to think about your work as a never ending process, how to share your process in a way that attracts people who might be interested in what you do, and how to deal with the ups and downs of putting yourself and your work out into the world.”

## Notes

- Steve Martin when talking about promotion has famously said, “Be so good they can’t ignore you.” Kleon continues the idea, saying, “You don’t really find an audience for your work; they find you.”
- The word “amateur,” in French, means lover. An amateur is someone who pursues her work out of a spirit of love. Sometimes its helpful to be an amateur because you can discover a new way of doing things. “In the beginner’s mind, there are many possibilites. In the expert’s mind, there are few.” – Zen monk Shunryu Suzuki. C.S. Lewis said, “The fellow pupil can help more than the master because he knows less. The difficulty we want him to explain is one he has recently met. The expert met it long ago he has forgotten.”
- It’s important to just start. Get something on the page. Get something in a camera. Though the difference between mediocre and good is vast, mediocrity is still on the spectrum. It’s much easier to move from one end of the spectrum to another than to get on the spectrum in the first place. So if you have _something_, you’ve already done half the battle. (Clay Shirky said something like this in his book _Creative Surplus)._
    - This is related to the _done is better than perfect idea_. A lot of people think having that mindset reduces the quality of one’s output, but that’s not true. No one said anything about _publishing_ the work as done but sloppy. It’s just better to have something finished and ready for editing or ways to make it better, than to either have nothing at all or perpetually edit something into a state of non-existence…
- **Great artists aren’t confined to their tools** - “I’m an artist man. Give me a tuba, and I’ll get you something out of it.” – John Lennon
- Robert Ebret, a film critic, lost his voice after several surgeries to treat his cancer. Someone who mad his living speaking on camera about films now couldn’t speak at all, so what did he do? He poured himself into tweeting, blogging, and posting to Facebook. He wrote about everything he could, from his childhood to Stake n Shake. “On the web, my real voice finds expression.” This is an amazing story of perseverance, not giving up when times change, and the incredible possibilities of trying new things. “If you want people to know about what you do and the things you care about, you have to share,” Kleon writes.
- **Remember death** - Wayne Coyne, lead singer of The Flaming Lips, was held up at 16 while working at a Long John Silvers. “I realized I was going to die,” he says. “And when that thought gets into your mind…it utterly changed me…i thought, I’m not going to sit here and wait for things to happen, I’m going to make them happen, and if people think I’m an idiot, I don’t care.” _Life isn’t going to happen for you. You have to make it happen for you._ Remembering death, or reading obituaries as Kleon suggests, helps spark that near-death experience feeling that can kick you into gear to help you get stuff done.
- “Most writers–poets in especial–prefer having it understood that they compose by a species of fine frenzy–an ecstatic intuition–and would positively shudder at letting the public take a peep behind the scenes.” – Edgar Allen Poe
- **Make stuff -** “You have to make stuff,” said journalist David Carr when asked by students for advice. “No one is going to give a damn about your resume; they want to see what you have made with your own little fingers.” “Put yourself, and your work, out there every day, and you’ll start meeting some amazing people.” – Bobby Solomon. When the artist Ze Frank was interviewing job candidates, he complained, “When I ask them to show me work, they show me things from school, or from another job, but I’m more interested in what they did last weekend.”
- **Build a website, create your own little space on the internet** - Almost everything good that has happened in my career can be traced back to my blog. My books, my art shows, my speaking gigs, some of my best friendships–they all exist because I have my own little space on the internet. Patti Smith got this advice from William Burroughs: “Build a good name. Keep your name clean. Don’t make compromises. Don’t worry about making a bunch of money or being successful. Be concerned with doing good work…and if you can build a good name, eventually that name will be its own currency.”
- **Build a Wunderkammern -** A “wonder chamber” or “cabinet of curiosities” - something that serves as an external display of your thirst for knowledge of the world.” Collect interesting things. **To think, create. To create, collect.** DJ Spooky said, “You’re only as good as your record collection.” Go dumpster diving in your favorite creators dumpster. What do they put as a throwaway line in their book? Chase that down! Read the books they just finished. Swyx calls this picking up the scraps or something like that from the master. Michel de Montigne wrote, “In my opinion, the most ordinary things, the most common and familiar, if we could see them in their true light, would turn out to be the grandest miracles…and the most marvelous examples.”
- **Tell good stories** - “The cat sat on a mat’ is not a story. ‘The cat sat on the dog’s mat’ is a story.” – John le Carré. “Autobiography is only to be trusted if it reveals something disgraceful.” – George Orwell. “Make people better at something they want to be better at.” – Kathy Sierra.
- If you want followers, be someone worth following. Barry Hannah said to one of his students, “Have you tried making yourself a more interesting person?”
- **Don’t waste time networking** - “Connections don’t mean shit,” Steve Albini says. “I’ve never had any connections that weren’t a natural outgrowth of doing things I was doing anyway…being good at things is the only thing that earns you clout or connections.” Don’t waste time networking. Don’t waste time joining a fellowship to grow online. And for god’s sake don’t spend time taking a course to learn how to build an audience. Do cool stuff and people will want to work with you and keep up with what you do. Don’t waste time commenting on people’s Twitter accounts to help get a few followers. Do cool stuff. Make great work and talk about what you do.
- **Find the knuckleballers** - In baseball, a knuckleball is a wild pitch to throw. Not many people can do it. Sidenote: I caught a pitcher in middle school who had an insane knuckleball and I loved to catch him. We would throw so many batters off with it. Anyway, knuckleball pitchers in the MLB share secrets and get together because it’s so unique. They wouldn’t do that with _any_ other pitch they throw, says R.A. Dicky in _Wherever I Wind Up_.
- Know what type of work you want to be doing more of and when an opportunity comes your way to do more of that type of work, say yes! This is good heuristic for deciding what career to pursue or what job to take. If it gets you closer to where you want to be, say yes. Neil Gaiman said when he first started out he said he chased a mountain: being an author and making a living with his words. If any job moved him closer to the mountain, he’d take it. If it moved him further from the mountain, he’d say hell no!
- **Stick around -** “The people who get what they’re after are very often the ones who just stick around long enough.” – Kleon You gotta play ‘till the ninth inning..and the bottom half of the ninth inning at that…and even extra innings if that’s what it takes! Do the work in front of you. When it’s finished, ask yourself, “Okay, what’s next?”
- “Anyone who isn’t embarrassed of who they were last year probably isn’t learning enough.” – Alain de Botton
- George Carlin, when he finished recording a stand-up special, would throw out all his material and force himself to start over from scratch. He did this year after year. “An artist has an obligation to be _en route_—to be going somewhere. There’s a journey involved…It keeps you trying to be fresh, trying to be new, trying to call on yourself a little more.” He learned that when he was forced to come up with something new, he came up with something better! “When you throw out old work,” Kleon says, “what you’re really doing is making room for new work.” This is similar to what Bradbury says about mailing a new story off. He’s scared of rejection, sure, but he’s more scared of not getting out all the stories that he has in him before he dies. So with each story he writes, he knows that he’s beaten death once again.

## Quotes