- This sounds very up-in-the-air, but it's not.
- I'm sick of seeing tweets from people going, "Ohh if only these productivity experts had two kids, we'll see how much they can stretch, go for a walk, drink coffee, and read a book all before 9am."
- But that's missing the freaking point.
- Those "experts" are 22 years old and their audience is other 22 year olds...because there are thousands of 22 year olds who wake up and have absolutely no idea what to do with their day.
- If you're a mom with three kids, *ignore the advice.* It's not for you.
- when people attack stuff like that, it's like being a runner and listening to an interview with Michael Phelps and getting mad that he gave tips on how to get better at swimming, when you *know* running is way harder than swimming. "oh if only little mikey knew how hard running was, he wouldn't be giving those tips on how to swim better"
- ??? wtf
- why do people do these things to themselves

---
I find the constant hate of young productivity "experts" for giving advice when they don't have families quite strange. Thousands of 22-year-olds wake up every day and have no idea what to do. When they see someone their age talking about a morning routine, it's inspiring. They can learn from them. "But," we say, "just wait until they have kids! We'll see how long they can do their morning stretching routine then. Muah hahaha." Why do we do this? Of course they won't be as productive then! But right now, they don't have kids, and a lot of other people don't have kids that are still trying to be productive. So what they need is someone who just has to balance a job, working out, and maybe school. That is a perfect role model for so many young people. And if you have two kids with sports and meetings and homework and dinner and laundry...of course their advice won't apply to you! It's not supposed to because they have no idea how to give that advice. This is like listening to an interview with Michael Phelps and getting mad that he's talking about swimming so much. "Oh man," you'd say to yourself, "if only he knew how hard running was, then he wouldn't be talking about swimming." Why do we do this?