# [Richard Posner, The Bench Burner](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2001/12/10/the-bench-burner)

> Posner doesn’t like to waste time, so he sticks to a routine (he calls himself “rigid and Germanic”). But it is not just his regular habits that allow him to be as productive as he is: he has structured his life so as to free his mind from any distractions whatsoever. Charlene is in charge of all the domestic arrangements: Posner describes their relationship as the traditional Jewish one, in which the pasty-faced scholar husband stays home and studies while the wife attends to worldly activities. Until a few weeks ago, Posner had never used an A.T.M.—when he needed cash, he took it from Charlene’s wallet.

The world of judges is endlessly fascinating and I’m excited to continue learning about them. Here are more quotes about Posner.

> Charlene does all the cooking except for a little meal that Posner makes every Friday night: for an appetizer, he puts together a plate of smoked salmon, chopped onion, capers, and lemon; for the main course, shrimp cocktail, he mixes a sauce that consists of mayonnaise, some cocktail sauce for color, a little sugar, a drop of Worcestershire sauce, and (the secret ingredient) two teaspoons of sherry. (He has never made this sauce for guests, because he worries that the proportions aren’t linear, and that it would go wrong if he attempted to make it for more than two people.)

I relate to the last line. There are certain dishes I will never cook for guests because I’ve only ever cooked it for two people.

Amen. Amen. Amen.

> Half a dozen times a year, Posner and Charlene will have people over for dinner—often the Chicago economist William Landes, Posner’s best friend, and his wife—but, on the whole, Posner prefers to avoid social life. “People don’t say interesting things,” he says. “A lot of socializing is just dull—I’d rather read a book. I have a friend, an economist who’s Swedish, and he told me that Sweden has terrible television, so people there spend their time visiting each other. But that’s worse, because when you watch television you get some information, you even get some moral instruction, you learn to be nice to single mothers or what have you, but socializing, particularly family—well, that is deadly. When you’re just talking with your friends about trivia, what’s the point?”

(#judges)
