---
Author: [[The Paris Review]]
Title: The Art of Editing No. 1
Link: https://www.theparisreview.org/interviews/1760/the-art-of-editing-no-1-robert-gottlieb
Date: 2024-07-06
---
A - The Art of Editing No. 1

1
- The editor’s relationship to a book should be an invisible one. The last thing anyone reading *Jane Eyre* would want to know, for example, is that I had convinced Charlotte Brontë that the first Mrs. Rochester should go up in flames. The most famous case of editorial intervention in English literature has always bothered me—you know, that Dickens’s friend Bulwer-Lytton advised him to change the end of *Great Expectations*: I don’t want to know that! ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cmn8yfekr3xrbjtxda83fw))
1
- when we were working on *Something Happened*. It’s a deeply disturbing book about a very conflicted man—a man who is consumed with anxiety and all kinds of serious moral problems—and his name was Bill Slocum. Well, we went through the whole book, and divided it up into chapters and all the rest of it, and at the end of the process I said, Joe, this is going to sound crazy to you but this guy is not a Bill. He said, Oh really, what do you think he is? I said, He’s a Bob. And Joe looked at me and said, He *was* a Bob, and I changed his name to Bill because I thought you would be offended if I made him a Bob. I said, Oh no, I don’t think he’s anything like me, it’s just that this character is a Bob. So we changed it back. It was absolutely amazing. How did it happen? I don’t know. I suppose our convoluted, neurotic, New York Jewish minds work the same way. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cmqy26jnzqv9tfyqkjppbw))
1
- DORIS LESSING
  What makes Bob a great editor, probably the best of his time, is that he has read everything, is soaked in the best that has been said and thought and brings this weight of experience into use when he judges the work of his authors. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cms2y4rdt90a4r5cf4bqxr))
1
- A lot of things one doesn’t usually think about can affect the reading experience. The way you structure the book, for example—whether you divide it into chapters or let it run uninterrupted, whether you give the chapters titles . . . Years ago I edited a wonderful novel that later became a successful movie, *Lilith*, by J. R. Salamanca. It was a powerful and affecting book, and the character who dominated it, who sparked it, was the character named Lilith, but she didn’t turn up at all in the first sixty or eighty pages. I don’t remember what the original title was, but I suggested to Jack that he change it to *Lilith*, because that way through all the opening pages of the book when Lilith hadn’t yet appeared, the reader would be *expecting* her. So just by changing the title one created a tension that wouldn’t have been there otherwise. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cmtd9wbnh4pkkvm8nbw183))
1
- The first thing writers want—and this sounds so basic, but you’d be surprised how unbasic it is in the publishing world—is a quick response. Once they’ve finished a new manuscript and put it in the mail, they exist in a state of suspended emotional and psychic animation until they hear from their editor, and it’s cruelty to animals to keep them waiting. I’m lucky, because I happen to be a very quick reader, so I can almost always read a new manuscript overnight. Besides, when I receive a manuscript from a writer I’ve been working with I’m consumed by curiosity to know what he or she has written. But easy or not, one’s first job is a swift and honest response—tempered, of course, by tact. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cn17fs2h12w550q4jt3apk))
1
- Bob said, No, no, the switch has to turn *itself* on automatically, and the character has to turn it *off*. He was absolutely right. That was the first time I understood that when there is something wrong in writing, the chances are that there is either too much of it, too little of it, or that it is in some way *backwards*. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cn4cdgj88m7x66jawf7gkc))
1
- Before *The Andromeda Strain* I didn’t really know the extent to which you could write a draft and *not* accept it but rather tear it all apart, move things around, rework them, and then put it all back together. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cn8pnnza1abz0gs6vp1m9y))
1
- Even now, when Bob first calls me back about a manuscript, I panic. But I’ll tell you, I think every writer should have tattooed backwards on his forehead, like ambulance on ambulances, the words *everybody needs an editor*. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cn97scgms752amz5nzcjxq))
1
- It’s often the case that the most strained moments in books are the very beginning and the very end—the getting in and the getting out. The ending especially: it’s awkward, as if the writer doesn’t know when the book is over and nervously says it all again. Sometimes the most useful thing you can tell a writer is, Here’s where the book ends—in these next two and a half pages you’re just clearing your throat. When I first read Chaim Potok’s *The Chosen*, to use an extreme example, I recognized that the book had come to an end, and that Chaim had written three hundred more pages. The material that was the motor of the book had worked itself out, and he had gone on to write the sequel. So I called up Chaim’s agent and said, I love the book and would like to talk to him about it, but please explain to him it’s only on the condition that he drop the last three hundred pages that I want to publish it; if he wants to leave it as it is, it’s a different book. Chaim immediately saw the point, so there was no problem. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cnb6m1d9f83nfjxp2gmsyn))
1
- Then after I finished *Sula* and was working on the third book, *Song of Solomon*, Bob said to me, You can loosen, open up. Your writing doesn’t have to be so contained; it can be *wider*. I’m not sure these were his exact words, but I know that the consequence of the remarks was that I *did* relax and begin to open up to possibilities. It was because I was able to open up to those possibilities that I began to think things like, What would happen if indeed I followed this strange notion or image or picture I had in my mind of this woman who had no navel . . . whereas normally I would have dismissed such an idea as recklessness. It was as if he had said, Be reckless in your imagination. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cne2sx3ncyxr0ccpx1mgyy))
1
- Toni best by encouraging her—helping to free her to be herself. The only other real help I gave to her was noneditorial: I encouraged her to stop editing and to write full-time, something I knew she wanted to do. As I remember it, I reassured her about her finances—but what I was really saying was, You’re not an editor who does some writing, you’re a *writer*—acknowledge it; there’s nothing to be scared of. We always understood each other—two editors, two lovers of reading, and exactly the same age. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cnf8q5q4kbd4snn6q88vp1))
1
- He told me, I can get people interested in Robert Moses once, but not twice. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3cnfx06tdaxxh8krxrp3e6k))
1
- Editing requires you to be always open, always responding. It is very important, for example, not to allow yourself to want the writer to write a certain kind of book. Sometimes that’s hard. My favorite of Heller’s books is *Something Happened*. When we are working on a manuscript, Joe is always telling me (rightly) that I want him to write *Something Happened* again, and that he could only write it once. Inevitably you will like some of a writer’s books better than others. But when you’re working on a manuscript, that can’t matter. You have to be inside *that* book and do your best to make it as good as it can be. And if you can’t approach it in that spirit, you shouldn’t be working on it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2drpmxc715kjgncpjfh6f))
1
- He and I share a belief that if you take care of all the tiny problems in a piece, all that small attention will somehow make a big difference. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2evpn896ea6rafk7ca9v4))
1
- Editing is simply the application of the common sense of any good reader. That’s why, to be an editor, you have to be a reader. It’s the number one qualification. Because you could have all the editorial tools, but if you’re not a responsive reader you won’t sense where the problems lie. I am a reader. My life is reading. In fact, I was about forty years old when I had an amazing revelation—this is going to sound dumb—it suddenly came to me that not every person in the world assumed, without thinking about it, that reading was the most important thing in life. I hadn’t known that. I hadn’t even known that *I* had thought it, it was so basic to me. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2fnkaeg6591a2738qzvzc))
1
- Bob is the best-read person I’ve ever met. I used to have a somewhat inflated notion of how well-read I was, but Bob makes me look like someone who’s just got his first library card. It’s because his ear is so well trained that he never falters in questions of tone. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2gqxrq4deeh4bg9pn9djr))
1
- I always know what I will not alter under any circumstances. Sometimes I just say no, and Bob won’t pursue it, because he knows that if I say no it means something quite different from “I don’t want to.” It’s in the areas in which you did the best you could, but you weren’t entirely pleased, or you weren’t quite sure, that you need the third eye. Given a few more years I suppose I would identify the problem myself, but a good editor is a shortcut. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2kf03bgccgy4k93sy4kt5))
1
- CRICHTON
  In my experience of writing, you generally start out with some overall idea that you can see fairly clearly, as if you were standing on a dock and looking at a ship on the ocean. At first you can see the entire ship, but then as you begin work you’re in the boiler room and you can’t see the ship anymore. All you can see are the pipes and the grease and the fittings of the boiler room and, you have to *assume*, the ship’s exterior. What you really want in an editor is someone who’s still on the dock, who can say, Hi, I’m looking at your ship, and it’s missing a bow, the front mast is crooked, and it looks to me as if your propellers are going to have to be fixed. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2m6w1p6vzbn3kva7nq705))
1
- It was from Bob that I learned to ask readers, Tell me how you reacted, not what you think ought to be done. Because very often people will jump to their sense of what needs to be fixed and bypass the initial reader’s perception of what was lacking in his experience. Also, I’m usually better at fixing my own writing than they are. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2q0yymewfkstnv01hv3q8))
1
- Your job as an editor is to figure out what the book needs, but the writer has to provide it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2q9kw7wm7e08101w9ayg6))
1
- There are editors who will always feel guilty that they aren’t writers. I can write perfectly well—anybody who’s educated can write perfectly well. But I dislike writing: it’s very, very hard, and I just don’t like the activity. Whereas reading is like breathing. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2ret7f75bgsvcc4hnhaa5))
1
- I think we erroneously give pride of place to the act of writing rather than the act of reading. People think you just read because you can understand the language, but a certain kind of reading is a very high-level intellectual process. I have such reverence for that kind of sensitive reading—it is not just absorbing things and identifying what’s wrong but a much deeper thing that I can see would be perfectly satisfying. Anyway, this separation is fairly recent: not long ago the great readers *were* the great writers, the great critics *were* the great novelists, the great poets *were* the great translators. People didn’t make these big distinctions about which one was more thrilling than the other.
  Writing for me is just a very sustained process of reading. The only difference is that writing a book might take three or four years, and *I’m* doing it. I never wrote a line until after I became an editor, and only then because I wanted to read something that I couldn’t find. That was the first book I wrote. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2s6r7273h2c29j3brshbn))
1
- No editor should work with a book he doesn’t like, because his job as an editor is to make something better of what it is. If you try to turn a book into something it isn’t, you’re doomed to disaster. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2tsnszya34xzw2afy7ts1))
1
- We worked like dogs on *Catch-22*, and then just before it went to press I was reading it again, and I came to a chapter I’d always hated. I thought it was pretentious and literary. I said to Joe, You know, I’ve always hated this chapter, and he said, Well take it out. And out it went. He printed it many years later in *Esquire* as the lost chapter of *Catch-22*. That’s Joe Heller. Now that doesn’t mean he’s better than Bob Caro. It means he has a completely different temperament in relation to his work. Joe is a pragmatist; Bob is a romantic. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d2yhm82agwzfbn1vnjtfe8))
1
- CARO
  The most important thing I ever heard Bob say was at Knopf one time when we were standing in the hallway outside his office and some other editor came along and, in that jocular way editors have, he said, So, when is this book going to be delivered? Bob said, *Don’t ever ask him that*. I’ve never forgotten it. All through our relationship we’ve had a tacit understanding that the words *delivery date* are never to be mentioned. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d31kz67hphv6x1bs7b5rw3))
1
- Bob is very skillful at motivation. He really knows how to make you work. He would call me up and say, Dear boy! I have read your manuscript, and here is what you have to do. And he was not above saying, I don’t know if you can do it this way, I don’t know if you’re up to it—which of course would drive me into a fury of effort. It was *very* effective. And it was only years later that I thought, You know, I think he probably said that on purpose. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d32p3e4gws492012e4kt4k))
1
- Most publishers, when you arrive in New York with your (as you hope) best-selling manuscript, send flowers to your suite, arrange for a limo, maybe, at the airport, and then let you go and put on the nosebag at some great restaurant. The whole idea is to make you feel great. With Bob you did best to arrive in jeans and sneakers, and then you lay on your tummy side-by-side with him on the floor of his office and sandwiches were brought up. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d3448pbtr608acky0k1j5s))
1
- Yes, boys must have their fun! The thing is, when I was a kid in publishing in the fifties, the way business was done, the way you met people, was at lunches. So when I had been at Simon & Schuster a year they said, You should have an expense account. I said, That’s very nice, but I don’t know anybody to take out to lunch. So they said, Well, we’d better give you an agent. The agent they gave me was a young man named Georges Borchardt. They gave me Georges because I read French, and at the time Georges was handling only French books. So Georges and I had many, many lunches on my expense account, and we’re close friends to this day. But after a while, of course, I met more people until I got to the point where having lunch with them all the time seemed to be yielding diminishing returns—you’re out for two hours, two and a half hours, you overeat, you’ve wasted all that time, it’s disgusting. So when I went to Knopf I said, This is it, I won’t do lunch anymore. The best thing that ever came from my spartan eating habits was that I first met my great pal Nora Ephron when the *Times Book Review* commissioned her to do some fatuous piece on how and where editors lunched. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d36pqwktsanz72a75cvh7g))
1
- I’ve always believed that for a nonfiction work to endure, its prose has to be at just as high a level as that of a good novel, and Bob believes that too. When we’re working together, what matters—and it is *all* that matters—is what is on the page. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d38484j1qma755h370nhk5))
1
- This is in fact the great difference between being a book editor and being a magazine editor, as I discovered in my years at *The New Yorker*. In book publishing, the editor and the author have the same goal: to make the book as good as it can be and to sell as many copies as possible. In a magazine, it’s a different matter. Of course a magazine editor wants the writing to be as good as possible, but he wants it to be as good as possible, but he wants it to be as good as possible *for the magazine*, while the writer wants to preserve his piece’s integrity. At a magazine, the writer can always withdraw his piece, but basically the editor is in charge. In book publishing, editors are the servants of the writers, and if we don’t serve writers well, they leave us. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d39c7f44dmctfsr63wmzey))
1
- There are certain locutions I become obsessed with. I hate the overuse of the word *continued—*he *continued* to eat his soup, instead of he *went on eating* his soup. That is something I must have changed ten thousand times in five years at *The New Yorker*. Impoverished vocabulary disturbs me. I used to joke with my colleagues about V.E.—verb enrichment. I hate it when a writer uses the word *walk* thirty times in two pages, for example. At *The New Yorker* changing things like that was difficult because the editors there had been trained that an editor does not *improve* writing, he makes it *correct*. I was a book editor, though, and my job has always been to help writers make books better. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d3kfspjnwg3em6hh1hetmm))
1
- He can live with bad books if they’re *good* bad books. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d3n21hrm63jwm8s23hsmcz))
1
- My impulse to make things good, and to make good things better, is almost ungovernable. I suppose it’s lucky I found a wholesome outlet for it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d44a4xpax0r400r645t8gy))
1
- And then I realized, you don’t have to be a genius to be an editor. You don’t have to have a great inspirational talent to be a publisher. You just have to be capable, hard-working, energetic, sensible, and full of goodwill. Those shouldn’t be rare qualities, and they don’t deserve a lot of credit, because you’re either born with them or you’re not. It’s luck. And that’s why you can be as good an editor your first day on the job as on your last; you’re not developing some unique and profound gift. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h3d452znpdvksbw2rkn253ds))
