---
Author: [[Virginia Woolf]]
Title: The Art of Biography
Link: https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1939/04/the-art-of-biography/654067/
Date: 2024-07-06
---
A - The Art of Biography

1
- But the reason for this high death rate, the biographer might argue, is that biography, compared with the arts of poetry and fiction, is a young art. Interest in our selves and in other people’s selves is a late development of the human mind. Not until the eighteenth century in England did that curiosity express itself in writing the lives of private people. Only in the nineteenth century was biography fully grown and hugely prolific. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h780estqr88f9tf9vcv84b23))
1
- It is that the art of biography is the most restricted of all the arts. He has his proof ready to hand. Here it is in the preface in which Smith, who has written the life of Jones, takes this opportunity of thanking old friends who have lent letters, and ‘last but not least’ Mrs. Jones, the widow, for that help ‘without which,’ as he puts it, ‘ this biography could not have been written.’ Now the novelist, he points out, simply says in his foreword, ‘Every character in this book is fictitious.’ The novelist is free; the biographer is tied. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h780gmehyhnrvnzq6nz142xk))
1
- The biographer could not invent her, because at every moment some document was at hand to check his invention. And, in writing of Victoria, Lytton Strachey submitted to the conditions. He used to the full the biographer’s power of selection and relation, but he kept strictly within the world of fact. Every statement was verified; every fact was authenticated. And the result is a life which, very possibly, will do for the old Queen what Boswell did for the old dictionary maker. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h7818hk21wr47cqvfanvtpmw))
1
- If this diagnosis is true we are forced to say that the trouble lies with biography itself. It imposes conditions, and those conditions are that it must be based upon fact. And by fact in biography we mean facts that can be verified by other people besides the artist. If he invents facts as an artist invents them — facts that no one else can verify — and tries to combine them with facts of the other sort, they destroy each other. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h781bmrq45cq7tmyv5v3b4xq))
1
- It seems, then, that when the biographer complained that he was tied by friends, letters, and documents he was laying his finger upon a necessary element in biography; and that it is also a necessary limitation. For the invented character lives in a free world where the facts are verified by one person only — the artist himself. Their authenticity lies in the truth of his own vision. The world created by that vision is rarer, intenser, and more wholly of a piece than the world that is largely made of authentic information supplied by other people. And because of this difference the two kinds of fact will not mix; if they touch they destroy each other. No one, the conclusion seems to be, can make the best of both worlds; you must choose, and you must abide by your choice. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h781dm4fcg7yttjrpgypkmdz))
1
- Had he lived, Lytton Strachey would no doubt himself have explored the vein that he had opened. As it is, he has shown us the way in which others may advance. The biographer is bound by facts — that is so; but, if it is so, he has the right to all the facts that are available. If Jones threw boots at the maid’s head, had a mistress at Islington, or was found drunk in a ditch after a night’s debauch, he must be free to say so — so far at least as the law of libel and human sentiment allow. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h781epz1zjq1q3vxjn40v16a))
1
- When and where did the real man live; how did he look; did he wear laced boots or elastic-sided; who were his aunts, and his friends; how did he blow his nose; whom did he love, and how; and when he came to die did he die in his bed like a Christian, or . . . ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h781j5vt64p5hx1nq0mnya4d))
1
- By telling us the true facts, by sifting the little from the big, and shaping the whole so that we perceive the outline, the biographer does more to stimulate the imagination than any poet or novelist save the very greatest. For few poets and novelists are capable of that high degree of tension which gives us reality. But almost any biographer, if he respects facts, can give us much more than another fact to add to our collection. He can give us the creative fact; the fertile fact; the fact that suggests and engenders. Of this, too, there is certain proof. For how often, when a biography is read and tossed aside, some scene remains bright, some figure lives on in the depths of the mind, and causes us, when we read a poem or a novel, to feel a start of recognition, as if we remembered something that we had known before. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h781jw996fsa24e843sa9b0r))
