---
Author: [[The Paris Review]]
Title: The Art of Biography No. 2
Link: https://www.theparisreview.org/interviews/894/the-art-of-biography-no-2-david-mccullough
Date: 2024-07-06
---
A - The Art of Biography No. 2

1
- In its simplicity and modesty, the bookshop is characteristic of an author who prefers to deflect credit for his success—to his material, to his family members, to his upbringing ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699e5wnd2c34m2t9wh1k5kb))
1
- It says, “Look at your fish.” It’s the test that Louis Agassiz, the nineteenth-century Harvard naturalist, gave every new student. He would take an odorous old fish out of a jar, set it in a tin pan in front of the student and say, Look at your fish. Then Agassiz would leave. When he came back, he would ask the student what he’d seen. Not very much, they would most often say, and Agassiz would say it again: Look at your fish. This could go on for days. The student would be encouraged to draw the fish but could use no tools for the examination, just hands and eyes. Samuel Scudder, who later became a famous entomologist and expert on grasshoppers, left us the best account of the “ordeal with the fish.” After several days, he still could not see whatever it was Agassiz wanted him to see. But, he said, I see how little I saw before. Then Scudder had a brainstorm and he announced it to Agassiz the next morning: Paired organs, the same on both sides. Of course! Of course! Agassiz said, very pleased. So Scudder naturally asked what he should do next, and Agassiz said, Look at your fish.
  I love that story and have used it often when teaching classes on writing, because seeing is so important in this work. Insight comes, more often than not, from looking at what’s been on the table all along, in front of everybody, rather than from discovering something new. Seeing is as much the job of an historian as it is of a poet or a painter, it seems to me. That’s Dickens’s great admonition to all writers, “Make me see.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699hg0xa1kb0ja21d6vxw96))
1
- But, a little like Scudder and the fish, I couldn’t see a pattern. Then first thing one morning, without really thinking about it, I looked at the calendar lying on my desk, and I saw what I’d been missing. The red boxes were all in a row—the attacks were all happening on Sunday. I thought, What happens on Sunday? Then it began to make sense. If he had an attack, he didn’t have to go to church, which he hated, and his father would take him to the country. He loved the country, and when it was just he and his father alone—that was pure heaven ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699mqe68ehtnh5wmqwe4jr9))
1
- The family was taking a trip up the Nile and young Theodore, who was an amateur taxidermist, shot and stuffed a number of birds. So I went out and found out how taxidermy is done. It takes patience and dexterity, and it’s smelly and grubby—a kind of work that would be very difficult for a child. And if you do it on a boat with your whole family present, you upstage them all. There’s a paragraph or two in the book about the process of stuffing a bird, because I thought that would show a lot about the boy. I didn’t want to say, He was a bright boy who did things other boys couldn’t. I wanted the reader to know it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699p6sadrxsek9pperjxgdv))
1
- The chances of finding a new piece are fairly remote—though I’ve never written a book where I didn’t find *something* new—but it’s more likely you see something that’s been around a long time that others haven’t seen. Sometimes it derives from your own nature, your own interests. More often, it’s just that nobody bothered to look closely enough. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699q2xggm6tv0s8rh42a6fp))
1
- I read the interview with him in *The Paris Review*. I can’t tell you what a difference it made for me. When asked why he wrote books and plays, he said, “I think I write in order to discover on my shelf a new book that I would enjoy reading or to see a new play that would engross me.” If it didn’t exist, he wrote it so he could read it or see it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699qzwvzjjvv3r3vdtrn81k))
1
- Earlier, as a graduation present, I’d been given *A Stillness at Appomattox* by Bruce Catton. And though I didn’t know it at the time, that book really changed the course of my life. I thought it was just marvelous and wondered, How do you do that? I read more of Catton and other books about the Civil War. Margaret Leech’s *Reveille in Washington* stands out in memory. I was finding my way, I suppose. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699ss5skk9bqfymn20wzqvc))
1
- So I decided to try to write the book I wanted to read. I wasn’t at all sure how to go about it. One evening, in New York, at a gathering of writers and historians interested in the West, my boss, Alvin Josephy, pointed to a white-haired man across the room. He said, That’s Harry Drago. Harry Sinclair Drago. He’s written over a hundred books. I waited for my chance and walked over. Mr. Drago, I said, Alvin Josephy says that you’ve written over a hundred books. Yes, he said, that’s right. How do you do that? I asked. And he said, Four pages a day. Every day? Every day. It was the best advice an aspiring writer could be given. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699vw22k721wpvzyreh7y90))
1
- I wrote *The Johnstown Flood* at night after work. I would come home, we’d have dinner, put the kids to bed, and then at about nine I would go to a little room upstairs, close the door, and start working. I tried to write not four but two pages every night. Our oldest daughter remembers going to sleep to the sound of the typewriter. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699wd8taajv99dc3drwjjxy))
1
- I never had any intention of writing except in the narrative form. I believe in the strong narrative. In E. M. Forster’s *Aspects of the Novel* he talks about the difference between a sequence of events and a story. He says, If I tell you that the king died and then the queen died, that’s a sequence of events. If I tell you that the king died and then the queen died of grief, that’s a story—you *feel* that. The basic information about the Johnstown flood can be looked up in an encyclopedia, an almanac, or reports. But you’re not going to feel anything by reading those. Not only do I want the reader to get inside the experience of the events and feel what it was like—*I* want to get inside the events and feel what it was like. People often ask me if I’m “working on a book,” and I say yes, because that’s what they asked, but in fact they’ve got the wrong preposition. I’m *in* the book, *in* the subject, *in* the time and the place. Whenever I go away for a couple of days, I have to work to put myself back in it, to get back under that spell. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699yq2eyry98eb173ct7dah))
2
    - Note: Read this book Aspects of a Novel.
1
- The book was really about human shortsightedness, the message being that it’s extremely risky, even perilous, to assume that because people hold positions of responsibility they are therefore behaving responsibly ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h699zx5frsjb2kv0zc1mt5aa))
1
- mind. I went to Peter Schwed, my editor at Simon and Schuster, and said, I’ve got my next book. He said he had an idea too—the Panama Canal. I told him mine and we agreed that I’d go ahead with the bridge first, then the canal. A lot of work was cut out that day. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69a1k2y1v1wxd74qev91rdg))
1
- It was really a small windowless room with shelves on all sides, packed solid with boxes and bundles of letters, old books, scrapbooks, the door knocker of the Roebling house in Brooklyn, a statue of the old man, John A. Roebling. I looked at it and thought, My God, what a treasure. Rosalee looked at it and thought, My God—there goes who knows how many years! ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69a2m6kawf5c2ecqtbg5d3r))
1
- course, I had help from experts and engineers, but my thought was, If I can make this clear and interesting to myself, then maybe it will be interesting to others ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69a4628ey538wxqa4y3kp36))
1
- Well, some subjects appear on the surface to be more compelling than others. I think one of the reasons that historians write about war so much is that it’s not very hard to hold the reader’s interest. I have no particular desire to write about war. As a writer, I’m interested in the creative drive, the continuity of a civilization, the connection between one generation and the next. Maybe that’s why fathers and sons play such a large part in my books. How does one generation break away from the preceding one and what does it gain or lose by doing so? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69a57akaa0qgjfk4ntp1qaf))
1
- Thornton Wilder talked, in that *Paris Review* interview, about the difficulty of recreating the past: “It lies in the effort to employ the past tense in such a way that it does not rob those events of their character of having occurred in freedom.” That’s the difficulty exactly—how do you write about something that happened long ago in a way so that it has the openness, the feeling of events happening in freedom? How to write solid history and, at the same time, give life to the past and see the world as it was to those vanished people, with an understanding of what they didn’t know. The problem with so much of history as it’s taught and written is that it’s so often presented as if it were all on a track—this followed that. In truth, nothing ever had to happen the way it happened. Nothing was preordained. There was always a degree of tension, of risk, and the question of what was going to happen next. The Brooklyn Bridge was built. You know that, it’s standing there today, but they didn’t know that at the start. No one knew Truman would become president or that the Panama Canal would be completed. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69a7h6nq0vqrzezjn2z4zbw))
1
- I feel I am working in the tradition of historians, biographers like Bruce Catton, Barbara Tuchman, Paul Horgan, who work in the narrative form. I love to tell a story ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69a80wb18x2sh7w8f06e302))
2
    - Note: More influences
1
- History, I really believe, is best understood as an unfolding story. I think there’s more intellectual honesty in seeing it that way, from *within* what happened. The moment has gone, the characters are dead, but you can bring them back, recreate their ever-changing lives in such a way that the story does not sound monotonous, with an unrelieved tempo. Life does not come at us that way—why should history? Some, of course, prefer history as seen from the mountain top and write it that way, which is fine. It’s just not the way I wish to do it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69a9ersq40ztnwcay6ttr6m))
1
- better. I work all day and just about every day. I go out about eight-thirty in the morning, like I’m going to the train, come back in for lunch, look at the mail, then I go back again for the afternoon. We built it when I was writing *The Great Bridge*. Before that I rented a little studio from a neighbor who had built several of them, each on wooden skids. You could pick out a spot on his farm and he’d hook a studio to his tractor and drag it there for you. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69ab73pn883b9py9mdf5epd))
1
- I write on an old Royal typewriter, a beauty! I bought it secondhand in 1964, before I started *The Johnstown Flood*, and I’ve written all my books on it. It was made about 1941 and it works perfectly. I have it cleaned and oiled about once every book and the roller has to be replaced now and then. Otherwise it’s the same machine. Imagine—it’s more than fifty years old and it still does just what it was built to do! There’s not a thing wrong with it.
  I love putting paper in. I love the way the keys come up and actually print the letters. I love it when I swing that carriage and the bell rings like an old trolley car. I love the feeling of making something with my hands. People say, But with a computer you could go so much faster. Well, I don’t want to go faster. If anything, I should go slower. I don’t think all that fast. They say, But you could change things so readily. I can change things very readily as it is. I take a pen and draw a circle around what I want to move up or down or wherever and then I retype it. Then they say, But you wouldn’t have to retype it. But when I’m retyping I’m also rewriting. And I’m listening, hearing what I’ve written. Writing should be done for the ear. Rosalee reads aloud wonderfully and it’s a tremendous help to me to hear her speak what I’ve written. Or sometimes I read it to her. It’s so important. You hear things that are wrong, that call for editing. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69adm8gx1tqd8qfmz59tz16))
1
- Do you make corrections while she’s reading?
  Yes, I make a little mark, or she does. Once when she was reading one of the last chapters of *Mornings on Horseback*, she stopped and said, There’s something wrong with that sentence. I said, Read it again. She read it again, There’s something wrong there. I said, Give it to me, you’re not reading it right, and I read it out loud and said, See?
  Well, a year or so later, when the book was published, Gore Vidal reviewed it in *The New York Review of Books*. It was a favorable review and I was very pleased, except that, out of the whole book, he singled out one sentence as an example that my writing wasn’t always the best. And it was that sentence! The only one he quoted! ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69af1qvragc5d7p09j6jwa6))
1
- I don’t understand people who sit and think what they’re going to write and then just write it out. My head doesn’t work that way. I’ve got to mess around with it on paper. I’ve got to make sketches, think it out on paper. Sometimes I think I’m not a writer, I’m a *re*writer. When a page isn’t working, I crumple it into a ball and throw it in the wastebasket. Always have. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69afxb934db1htnvvg2sa88))
1
- Our son Geoffrey, when he was a little boy, would come out where I work and look in my wastebasket to see how many “wrong pages” I had written that day. If the basket was full, it had been a good day. I’d worked things through. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69ag6mnp16kfgvfxrdqt216))
1
- It’s only when you begin to write that you begin to see what you don’t know and need to find out. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69agm1tgbdgzwafftnb1skd))
1
- If you think about medical diagnosis, it’s much the same as what a writer has to do—diagnose his characters. For my current book, I want to find out more about smallpox, which was a defining circumstance of life in that era. That’s the great thing about a writer’s life—nothing is useless, everything bears on future work. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69yv88rtdqkbnwvzyh05vjc))
2
    - Note: Maybe this is why im drawn to the writers life - because all the little fun things I learn can be useful somewhere down the road.
1
- For *Truman* I had to see the places where he was in World War I, and to make the run he made through the Capitol on the night that Roosevelt died. Sam Rayburn had a little hideaway on the House side of the Capitol, which is where Truman, who was presiding over the Senate, had gone that evening. He got a call there, summoning him to the White House. He didn’t know why. Nobody told him that Roosevelt was dead. In his diary or one of his letters, I forget which, he writes that after excusing himself he ran to his office to get his hat—which is a nice period touch—before going to his car to drive over to the White House. Well, that run, it seemed to me, was one of the key moments in the whole story. Why was he running? Was he running toward something or away from something? Did he somehow guess that he was running to the presidency? It’s a great moment. I wanted to see how long it would have taken him to make that run, to figure out which route he took, because he could have gone several ways, to see what would have been flashing by in his peripheral vision. To do it, I had to make arrangements with the Senate historian, a wonderful fellow named Dick Baker, because you can’t just start running through the Capitol. It was a long run. Among other things, I realized that Truman must have been in very good shape. At the end of the run he had to go charging up a long flight of stairs. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69yy7hg3ncrrkdvykff1jzv))
2
    - Note: Great biographers run what their subjects ran: Robert Caro did the same thing when he wrote about LBJ's runs from his apartment to the Capitol early in the morning.
1
- But then I realized that strictly in terms of what would work for me, his wasn’t an interesting life. There’s an old writer’s adage: keep your hero in trouble. With Truman, for instance, that’s never a problem, because he’s always in trouble. Picasso, on the other hand, was immediately successful. Except for his painting and his love affairs, he lived a prosaic life. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69z1gxcqapmgzc5q8q9522z))
1
- He was an awful man. I don’t think you have to love your subject—initially you shouldn’t—but it’s like picking a roommate. After all you’re going to be with that person every day, maybe for years, and why subject yourself to someone you have no respect for or outright don’t like? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69z1ydjw26c5yyfxae1rc39))
1
- The training I had in drawing and painting has been of great benefit. Drawing is learning to see and so is writing. It’s also an exercise in composition, as writing is, though in writing it’s called form. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69z2k52vt38q3tjh62z400e))
1
- I also took Daily Themes at Yale, Robert Penn Warren’s writing course. Every morning at eight-thirty you had to slide a sheet of original prose under the professor’s door, and if you didn’t, you got a zero. There was no kidding about it. It taught us discipline, to produce. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69z5hd632ht4x6279pms23s))
2
    - Note: What does this look like today?
1
- get a bit impatient with people who talk about all the trials and the pain and loneliness of being a writer. That’s not been my experience. I love the work. I would pay to do what I do. That’s not to say it’s easy, but I don’t think ease and pleasure are necessarily synonymous. I like it in part because it *is* hard. And because I don’t know how it’s going to come out. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69z6a7164j56pnjvdf1025w))
1
- The architect Louis Kahn said a great city ought to be a place where a young person gets an idea of what he might like to do with his life ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69z8sz42vtsx1eqam6en2q5))
1
- I’m often asked which is my favorite book and it’s always the same—the one I’m working on. And I feel that now. I really look forward to going out there tomorrow morning and working on chapter three. The time will fly. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h69zc7ah03bbzg8nmx62s4xx))
