---
Author: [[Colossus - Business Podcasts]]
Title: Tim Ferriss - Curating Curiosities
Link: https://www.joincolossus.com/episodes/11271167/ferriss-curating-curiosities?tab=transcript
Date: 2024-07-06
---
A - Tim Ferriss - Curating Curiosities

1
- I think my podcast is right now $60 CPM. It's very expensive. As podcasts go, now I've since changed my approach a little bit because I'm going to be offering partnerships across all of my platforms that I think, move the needle like the newsletter and the blog, which people forget the blog was the connective tissue that allowed the books to provide you with direct contact with my audience, which then allowed the podcasts to launch the way that it did. It's easy to forget that I have 1,000 blog posts, tim.blog.
  But zooming out to the macro for a second, my ideal is a sponsor who sticks around for 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 years. I want them to do really well. It's also less work for my team to minimize the churn of sponsors, which is why I'd say 1 out of 20 sponsors makes it in terms of inbound sponsorships because we're going to test everything. We're going to survey my audience. I'm going to have my employees test everything.
  And if it's not, how strongly would you recommend this to a friend from 1 to 10, no seven allowed if it's not an eight, nine or 10, it doesn't make the cut. And once that's done though you can run into a situation, for instance, where the ad rate is great, the product is great, but their funnel, their website, and their sales flow, their onboarding, or whatever it is, checkout process, s**** so badly that there's all this slippage.
  And then, they could come back to you and say the podcast didn't work when in fact, we sent them a ton of traffic, but they didn't capture it effectively. So I will also look at their flow or have my team look at their flow, and then help to fix their capture process so that I can improve the likelihood of them being retained as a sponsor because they'll see the ROI.
  The business, I would say, is for me an exercise in resisting the temptation to diversify. What I mean by that is this sponsorship model works, it works very well. It's straightforward. We have it incredibly streamlined. There is demand, it works. There are alternate opportunities, and you see people taking various approaches to this where you might have something behind a paywall, like a Patreon, or through an app you might have products that are in-house products.
  There are some compelling reasons to do something like this, but with a course or a membership platform, beverage, you name it, it could be anything. And then, of course, those YouTube games, but I don't really participate in the monetizing side of YouTube. It's not significant enough for me to pay attention to it at this point. So I don't really pay attention to that.
  What I will say is that from an analytics perspective, it would be very helpful for me to have an in-house product because then I could see from sort of enthusiasm to intent to click through the conversion, how my audience behaves. And that would also keep my team quite happy and interested if they're able to engage with some of those metrics. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hvm7xxpk3pw88bxkf2avvgg6))
1
- Let's just say, like if someone is raging a****** on alcohol, it's not that aspect of their personality that doesn't exist. It's that it gets liberated by the catalyst of alcohol. And money, power, and fame are very similar. They're amplifiers. So if you have insecurities, fears, and paranoia, those are all going to get amplified by any one of these three. How do you think about these things? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hvm8g2kcwny71jjenn9ecqvm))
